>> Steve Kinney: I mean,
listen, we came up with
unique session IDs, we signed them.
We're only gonna send them
over HTTPS in production.
We're done, right?
We're good, right?
Forgetting the fact that I have not
encrypted the passwords in my database or
anything like that, everything seems good.
We're done, let's go home, right?
Cuz no one can get at that session now.
For our next section,
it's called session hijacking, right?
Which I guess we technically did by
manually guessing that there was someone
called Admin.
But just because you secured the cookie,
there are all sorts of other fun
ways that you can mess this up.
Usually, the name of the game in this
case is something called privilege
escalation, right?
And escalation, yes, if you try to get
yourself admin privileges, that'll do it.
But honestly, it's doing anything
that you're not supposed to do.
This also means, we saw before
switching to a different user,
is technically a privileged
escalation as well, right?
So the kind of high-level things
is of how this works, typos aside,
which is, they have some amount
of access to the system.
They didn't break in or
something along those lines, and
maybe in some of these examples they did.
And then they look around for
misconfigurations.
If you ever go, a lot of companies
have bug bounties, where it's, hey,
if you hack these places that we
definitely told you you're allowed to,
right, and tell us before you make it
public, we will give you money, right?
But a lot of times there is a certain
amount of disclosure that happens
afterwards.
A lot of the attacks that you will see,
if you read enough of these,
there's a certain amount of
investigation that happens.
They don't just go, hey,
I'm gonna do this thing, and it worked.
I mean, I'm sure that happens sometimes,
but a lot of times there is a little
bit of feeling around as well.
You kinda look at what you get
back from the API, you look for
some telltale signs, right?
And then you get a sense, there's some
really sophisticated stuff around,
instead of injecting JavaScript,
you inject some CSS, right?
But that CSS might call a background image
on a div that has the ID, administrator or
something like that, then you can
kinda get a shape of things weird.
There's a lot of research that
kinda goes into it as well.
We're learning how to protect ourselves,
not necessarily how to be either
white hat or black hat hacker here.
But it is finding those weaknesses and
exploiting them, and
then trying to use that to kinda
either become somebody else, right?
And getting one of those signed
HTTP only encrypted cookies into
your grubby hands, or
doing something with them.
All right, and part of this is just,
we can't guess the cookie anymore,
but we can try to trick the server
into giving it to us, right?
And so that either,
we are gonna look at that.
The other one that you will see that
I would argue is not impossible, but
increasingly harder, is what is called
a man-in-the-middle attack, right?
Man-in-the-middle attack is like,
here is browser, here is server,
they are sending messages,
go grab the message in the middle.
Now, generally speaking with HTTPS,
it is signed and
you can grab a message in the middle
that is encrypted, good luck.
Right, you're probably not gonna
be able to decrypt it, but
maybe you can if they used a weak
algorithm or something along those lines.
But for the one that we kind of care about
the most is this either idea of using
session hijacking to achieve
a privilege escalation in this case.